{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNSText;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red22\green25\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c11373\c12941\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgray\c100000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13920\viewh14720\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
"One might say that a designer is an artist to whom information is almost as important as artistic technique".\
\cb4 \
\cb3 - S Neil Fujita\
\

\b on Music Visualization/Packaging
\b0 \
\
\'93Generally, research is done on the historical facts pertaining to the music and the composer. The artist then tries to capture, to some degree, the lessons of the particular era in relation to its culture, mood, and tempo.\
\
It might seem absurd to think that attempts are made to depict music\'92s aesthetic values through another art form, and we may wonder at the importance placed on the designing of a package that merely covers and protects a musical masterwork. A design for an album package must therefore recognize and appreciate certain functional and emotional requirements, inasmuch as it precedes the expression of the music itself. It must have 
\b Dignity, Taste, 
\b0 and
\b  Understanding. 
\b0 Design in this area, as indeed in all others, would never conflict with its object but should work in harmony with the given musical content.\'94\
\
\
\'93 There is no such thing as design that is good in the abstract. Design must be \'93design for\'94 \'94\
\

\b Art vs. Design
\b0 \
\
\'93The painter may function best when he excludes himself from society in order to create. The designer does just the opposite. He creates for the society he lives in, and he should never cut himself off from that society. But the painter who expresses, and the designer who interprets, have this in common: Both are communicators, although they use different approaches.\
\
The painter usually finds his audience after his work is completed. The designer knows his audience before he starts. This does not always hold true, however: there are painters who paint for a specific audience and designers who assume the role of a painter, neglecting their function as the graphic communicators of a client\'92s message. I think it is is sad when a painter thinks commercially or when a designer thinks in purely idealistic terms. My respect for both is too great to allow differences of opinion to nullify their respective positions and their function as craftsman. My respect for the painter is great because it takes courage and perseverance to paint. My respect for the designer is equally great, because it takes courage and diplomacy to survive. \'93\
\
\

\b On getting out of your studio 
\b0 \
\
\'93 Too many designers are still looking for answers and directions only on the clean, white, unobtrusive surface of their drawing pads. They do not bother to look beyond the edge of their paper. They have not learned to bridge the gap between their artistic purpose and their function in life. \'93\
\
\

\b Mental Discipline
\b0 \
\
\'93If you have even a slight knowledge of something, the first hurdle is past; you can dive deeper and in the end come up with exciting, original solutions.\'94\
\

\b Ben Shahn on arts education
\b0 \
\
\'93Attend a university if you possibly can. There is not content of knowledge that is not pertinent to the work you will want to do. But before you attend a university, work at something for a while. Do anything. Get a job in a potato field. Or work as a greasemonkey in an auto repair shop. But if you do work in a field do not fail to observe the low and the feel of the earth and of all things that you handle-yes, even potatoes! Or, in the auto shop, the smell of oil and grease and burning rubber. Paint. Of course! But if you have to lay aside painting for a time, continue to draw. Listen well to all conversations and be instructed by them and take all seriousness seriously. Never look down upon anything or anyone as not worthy of notice. In college or out of college, read. And form opinions! Read Sophocles and Euripides and Dante and Proust. Read everything that you can find about art except the reviews. Read the Bible; read Hume; read Pogo. Read all kinds of poetry and know many poets and many artists. Got to an art school, or two, or three, or take art courses at night if necessary. And paint and paint and draw and draw. Know all that you can, both curricular and noncurricular \'96 mathematics and physics and economics, logic, and particularly history. Know at least two languages besides your own, but anyway, know French. Look at pictures and more pictures. Look at every kind of visual symbol, every kind of emblem; do not spurn signboards or furniture drawings or this style of art or that style of art. Do not be afraid to like painting honestly or to dislike them honestly, but if you do dislike them rein an open mind. Do not dismiss any school of art, not the Pre-Raphaelites no the Hudson River School nor the German Genre painters. Talk and talk and sit at cafes, and listen to everything, to Brahms, to Brubeck, to the Italian hour on the radio. Listen to preachers in small-town churches and in big-city churches. List to politicians in New England town meeting and to rabble-rousers in Alabama. Even draw them. And remember that yu are trying to learn to think what you want to think. that you are trying to coordiante mind and hand and eye. Got to all sorts of museums and galleries and to the studios of artists. Go to Paris and Madrid and Rome and Ravenna and Padua. Stand alone in the Sainte Chapelle, in the Sistine Chapel, in the Church of the Carmine in Florence. Draw and draw and paint and learn to work in many media: Try lithography and aquatint and silk-screen. Know all that you can about art, and by all means have opinions. Never be afraid to become embroiled in art or life or politics; never be afraid to learn to draw or paint better that you already do; and never be afraid to undertake any kind of art at all, however exalted or however common, but do it with distinction.\'94\
\

\i The Shape of the Content
\i0 , (Harvard University Press, 1957) Ben Shahn\
\

\b On Background
\b0 \
\
\
\'93Men will be more readily hired for responsible positions than women. Certain ethnic groups still encounter walls of prejudice and opposition. People from major cities have a definite advantage over people coming from small towns. Members of any minority group will have to be better and work harder, but they should let these facts discourage them from entering the field. Unfortunately, many guidance counselors try to steer these people away from difficult fields. The ones that do continue, thanks to their talent and drive are often very successful as some of the following biographies will illustrate. The people had to overcome man different obstacles. They had to know what they wanted and perseverance in the dirt attempt to achieve their cold. Their stories my strike and echo in your own experience. If so, I sincerely hope you keep on trying, just as they did.\'94\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf0 \cb4 \'93We should never forget the kind of person we want in design. People with fresh viewpoints, fresh ideas, fresh concepts of the reality we all seek. We may find them right here in our high schools. We must let you students express your ideas of the reality that concerns us all.\'94 \
\
\'93An interview does not depend solely on your portfolio. The impression you make depends on two factors: the portfolio and yourself \'97 how you speak and how you look. In general, it is better to be a little conservative in the way you dress for your job interview. On that particular day, concentrate your originality in your portfolio and not in your clothes.\'94\
\
\
\'93The graphic shape of every civilization is the product of the designer\'92s eye, For it is the designer who translates the visual insights of his age into the patterns of everyday life.\'94 
\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \
\
}